.TH "asamba.sampler" 3 "Mon May 15 2017" "ASAMBA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
asamba.sampler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Classes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "class \fBsampling\fP"
.br
.RI "
.SS ""
.PP
.SH ""
.PP
.PP
.SH ""
.PP
.PP
.SH ""
.PP
.PP
.SH ""
.PP
.PP
.SH ""
.PP
.PP
.SS ""
"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBconstrained_pick_models_and_rotation_ids\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBrandomly_pick_models_and_rotation_ids\fP (self)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBlogger\fP = logging\&.getLogger(__name__)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBis_py3x\fP = 3"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 

.PP
.nf
This module prepares training/validatin/test datasets to train/validate/test an 
artificial neural network. This is achieved through the "sampling" class, which 
handles the task of collecting the models properly from the database.

This module inherits from the "star" module, in order to sample the model frequencies
based on the observed frequencies. On the flip side, it serves as superclass for the 
interpolator.interpolation() class, who inherits/needs several of the functionlaities 
offered in here. 

.fi
.PP
 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.sampler\&.constrained_pick_models_and_rotation_ids ( self)"

.PP
.nf
Return a combination of "models" id and "rotation_rate" id by applying constraints on log_Teff,
log_g and rotation rates. For a totally random (unconstrained) 
selection, you may call "randomly_pick_models_and_rotation_ids()", instead. 

Notes:
- the constraint ranges are inclusive. 
- the results are fetched firectly from executing a SQL query
- the combination of the models and rotation rates are shuffled

Example of calling:
>>>

@param dbname: the name of the database
@type dbname: str
@param n: the *maximum* number of models to retrieve
@type n: int
@param range_log_Teff: the lower and upper range of log_Teff to scan the database. Default: [3.5, 5]
@type range_log_Teff: list/tuple
@param range_log_g: the lower and upper range of log_g to scan the database. Default: [0, 5]
@type range_log_g: list/tuple
@param range_eta: The range of rotation rates (in percentage w.r.t to critical, e.g. 15). 
       Default: [0, 50]
@type range_eta: list/tuple
@return: a shuffled list of 2-element tuples, with the first element being the model id, and the
       second element being the rotation_rate id.
@rtype: list of tuples

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 956 of file sampler\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.sampler\&.randomly_pick_models_and_rotation_ids ( self)"

.PP
.nf
Return a randomly-selected models together with their rotation rates from the database.
This function fetches all model "id" number from the "models" table, in addition to all the "id"
numbers from the "rotation_rates" table. Then, it iterates over them all, and creates all possible
tupls with two elements: first element being the model id, and the second element being the rotaiton
id. Then, this list is shuffled using the numpy.random.shuffle method, and only the subset of this
whole list is returned, with the size specified by "n".

@param dbname: The name of the database
@type dbname: grid
@param n: the size of the randomly-selected combinations of model id and rotation ids
@type n: int
@return: list of tuples where each tuple consists of two integers: 
   - the model id
   - the rotaiton id
@rtype: list of tuples

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 1039 of file sampler\&.py\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for ASAMBA from the source code\&.
