.TH "asamba.var_def.track" 3 "Mon May 15 2017" "ASAMBA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
asamba.var_def.track
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
Inherits object\&.
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fB__init__\fP (self, M_ini=\-1\&.0, Z=\-1\&.0, fov=\-1\&.0, logD=\-1\&.0)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fB__exit__\fP (self, type, value, traceback)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset_M_ini\fP (self, M_ini)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset_Z\fP (self, Z)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset_fov\fP (self, fov)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset_logD\fP (self, logD)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset_filename\fP (self, filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_M_ini\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_Z\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_fov\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_logD\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_filename\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_attr_as_dic\fP (self)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBM_ini\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBZ\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBfov\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBlogD\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBfilename\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 

.PP
.nf
Class object that stores the data for MESA tracks

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 18 of file var_def\&.py\&.
.SH "Constructor & Destructor Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.var_def\&.track\&.__init__ ( self,  M_ini = \fC\-1\&.0\fP,  Z = \fC\-1\&.0\fP,  fov = \fC\-1\&.0\fP,  logD = \fC\-1\&.0\fP)"

.PP
.nf
Constructor that stores the mass, metalicity, overshoot and extra diffusive mixing per each 
track. By default, the attributes are set to "-1.0" as a physically meaningless initial value,
to facilitate more convenient capturing of wrong initializations. E.g. you can initialize a track
as:

>>>a_track = var_def.track(M_ini=12.0, Z=0.014, fov=0.024, logD=2.25)

@param M_ini: the initial mass in solar unit
@type M_ini: float
@param Z: metallicity (where the solar metallicity from Asplund et al. 2009 is 0.014)
@type Z: float
@param fov: the exponential overshoot free parameter (see e.g. Eq. 2 in Moravveji et al.
   2016, ApJ)
@type fov: float
@param logD: the (logarithm of the) constant diffusive mixing in the radiative envelope.
   See e.g. Fig. 2a in Moravveji et al. (2016, ApJ)
@type logD: float

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 22 of file var_def\&.py\&.
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.var_def\&.track\&.get_attr_as_dic ( self)"

.PP
.nf
Convert the attributes of the "track" object into a dictionary, with the attribute names as keys

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 94 of file var_def\&.py\&.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for ASAMBA from the source code\&.
