.TH "asamba.read" 3 "Mon May 15 2017" "ASAMBA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
asamba.read
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBconvert_val\fP (str_val)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBread_inlist\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBgyre_h5\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBread_mesa_ascii\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBread_models_parameters_from_ascii\fP (ascii_in)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBread_tracks_parameters_from_ascii\fP (ascii_in)"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBlogger\fP = logging\&.getLogger(__name__)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 

.PP
.nf
This module provides basic functionalities to read a variety of data e.g. in ASCII 
and HDF5 etc. formats. The highlight of the module is the "read_mesa_ascii()" function
which can read MESA history or profile files.

.fi
.PP
 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.convert_val ( str_val)"

.PP
.nf
This function receives an integer, float or a boolean variable in a string representation, identifies
the correct type, and returns the variable in the expected/appropriate python native data type. 
E.g. '1' --> 1, and 'True' --> True

@param str_val: 

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 23 of file read\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.gyre_h5 ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Read the GYRE output HDF5 file in full detail, and return an instance of the var_def.modes() with
relevant attributes filled up. Thus, this routine reads the summary file or the eigenfunction file
conveniently. Example of use:

>>>from asamba import read
>>>gyre_file = '/home/user/projects/gyre/beta_Cep.h5'
>>>mode_list = gyre_h5(gyre_file)
>>>freq      = np.real( mode_list.freq )

@param filename: full path to the output GYRE HDF5 file
@type filename: string
@return: an instance of the var_def.modes() class
@rtype: object

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 137 of file read\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.read_inlist ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
This function reads an ASCII file which specifies any set of options as a list of tuples (attr, val) for 
valid entries in the file. It follows the same idea as the widely-used Fortran inlists.

The user comments, specified using "#" are trimmed off from anywhere in the lines, so that one may comment 
the inlist file in a line before the attr = val set or after it. E.g., the following two options are both 
valid:

   # Here, I specify the name of my star
   name = 'beta Cephei'

or 

   name = 'beta Cephei'  # The name of my star

if the val is 'True', it is set to boolean True, if it is 'False', it is set to boolean False, if it contains
'.', 'e+' or 'e-', it is interpreted as a fload, and otherwise, it is converted to integer. So, a great caution
has to be practiced when assigning values to the attributes in the inlist files.

As a nice feature, the user can even toss in a list/tuple of values, e.g. var = [1, 2.3, True]. Each element inside
the list/tuple will be split (comma as a delimiter), and converted to the correct datatype by calling the 
function convert_val().

@param filename: full path to the inlist file
@type filename: str
@return: a list of (attr, val) tuples, where 

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 57 of file read\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.read_mesa_ascii ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Read a history or profile ascii output from MESA.
An example of using this function to read the file "input_file" is the following

>>> input_file = '/home/user/my-files/The_Sun/LOGS/history.data'
>>> header, data = read.read_mesa_ascii(input_file)

@param filename: full path to the input ascii file
@type filename: string
@return dictionary of the header of the file, and the record array for the data block. 
@rtype: dictionary and numpy record array

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 173 of file read\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.read_models_parameters_from_ascii ( ascii_in)"

.PP
.nf
Warning: If the size of the input ascii is too large (which is practically the case), then this 
function crashes raising a MemoryError exception.

Read the contents of the input ASCII file containing the whole grid models data.

@param ascii_in: full path to the ASCII file to be read
@type ascii_in: string
@return: array containing the whole data. Each field can be accessed using the same attributes of
         the var_def.model class object.
@rtype: numpy record array

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 227 of file read\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.read\&.read_tracks_parameters_from_ascii ( ascii_in)"

.PP
.nf
This routine reads the contents of an ascii file which tabulates the track parameters, and returns
a list of "var_def.track()" objects, one per each row in the file. The list can be used later on
for any manipulation (plotting, inserting into the database, etc). Note that we skip the first row
as the header.

@param ascii_in: the full path to the already-available ascii file that contains the entire (or part)
       of the tracks parameters. This file can be generated by first calling the function  
       write_tracks_parameters_to_ascii().
@type ascii_out: string
@return: list of instances of var_def.track() class objects, one object per each row (i.e. track).
@rtype: list

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 295 of file read\&.py\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for ASAMBA from the source code\&.
