.TH "asamba.var_lib" 3 "Mon May 15 2017" "ASAMBA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
asamba.var_lib
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_attrs\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_basic_attrs\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_other_attrs\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_color_attrs\fP ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_list_models_from_hist_and_gyre_in_files\fP (self_tracks)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_parameters_from_gyre_out_filename\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_track_parameters_from_hist_filename\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_parameters_from_gyre_in_filename\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_model_number_from_gyre_in_filename\fP (filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_gyre_in_search_pattern_from_hist\fP (dir_repos, filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBgen_histname_from_gyre_in\fP (gyre_in_filename)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBprepare_models_data\fP (self_models)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget_track_attrs\fP ()"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBlogger\fP = logging\&.getLogger(__name__)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 

.PP
.nf
This module provides auxilary functinalities to work with the database, in reading, writng and 
manipulating the grid data (tracks, models, modes, etc) into a proper format. 

.fi
.PP
 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.gen_histname_from_gyre_in ( gyre_in_filename)"

.PP
.nf
convert the full filename of the gyre_in file to a full path of the hist file, by following these 
steps:
1. substitute "gyre_in" with "hist"
2. strip off the part of the filename after "logDxx.xx" 
3. append '.hist' at the end of the file

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 385 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_gyre_in_search_pattern_from_hist ( dir_repos,  filename)"

.PP
.nf
From the full path to the MESA history file, generate a search string for globbing GYRE input files.
This function replaces the "/hist/" in the input filename with "/gyre_in/", and also replaces the 
hist suffix e.g. ".hist" with "*".

@param dir_repos: the full path to the repository, where hist files are stored. Normally, this is 
       available from tracks.dir_repos
@type dir_repos: string
@param filename: full path to the history filename. 
@type filename: string
@return: regular expression for explicitly searching for gyre_in files that are linked to a specific
      track
@rtype: string

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 357 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_list_models_from_hist_and_gyre_in_files ( self_tracks)"

.PP
.nf
Extract the data for all GYRE input models in the repository, using their associated line in the 
MESA history file.

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 108 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_attrs ()"

.PP
.nf
Get the entire list of attributes for an instance of the var_def.model class. The attributes are 
sorted in the way they are defined in the class (which might be different from the order in which 
they are stored/allocated in memory!). The returned list is a concatenation of the two following 
lists:
- basic attributes, retrieved by calling get_model_basic_attrs()
- other attributes, retrieved by calling get_model_other_attrs()

@return: the full list of var_def.model attribute names 
@rtype: list of strings

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 31 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_basic_attrs ()"

.PP
.nf
Get the basic attributes of a var_def.model() object. These six attributes distinguish a MESA 
model from another.

@return: list of basic attribute names, i.e. 'M_ini', 'fov', 'Z', 'logD', 'Xc', 'model_number'
@rtype: list of strings

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 47 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_color_attrs ()"

.PP
.nf
Get the attributes of the model, corresponding to the color indixes.

@return: list of color attribute names
@rtype: list of string

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 95 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_number_from_gyre_in_filename ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Extract the MESA evolution model number (when recording the file) from the GYRE input filename.
E.g. the GYRE input file looks like the following:
/home/user/my_grid/M01.400/gyre_in/M01.400-ov0.025-Z0.014-logD02.50-MS-Xc0.7075-00107.gyre
The model number is the integer after the last dash "-" in the filename (easy to extract)

@param filename: full path to the GYRE input filename
@type filename: string
@return: the model number of the file
@rtype: int

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 338 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_other_attrs ()"

.PP
.nf
Get the other attribute names of the var_def.model() object. These attributes are retrieved from
MESA history information, and are in the same order as they appear as history column names. This
choice facilitates much faster conversion of history rows/columns and writing them down into an 
ASCII file. The same is true when reading the file. For other purposes, the ordering is not 
important.

@return: list of other attribute names 
@rtype: list of strings

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 58 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_parameters_from_gyre_in_filename ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Extract the whole parameters in the GYRE input filename, and return them as a tuple. The GYRE input
file can look like this:
/home/user/my_grid/M12.345/gyre_in/M12.345-ov0.012-Z0.014-logD02.50-MS-Xc0.5432-98765.gyre
whic corresponds to the following parameters:
- M_ini    = 12.345 Msun
- fov      = 0.012
- Z        = 0.014
- logD     = 2.50
- evol_stat = 'MS'
- Xc       = 0.5432
- model_number = 98765

@param filename: full path to the input GYRE filename
@type filename: string
@return: tuple with the following items in the order: M_ini, fov, Z, logD, evol_state, Xc, model_number
@rtype: tuple

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 304 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_model_parameters_from_gyre_out_filename ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Extract all parameters in the MESA output/GYRE input file, and return them as a tuple. A random file
may look like the following:
/home/user/my_grid/M12.345/gyre_out/eta25.00/ad-sum-M12.345-ov0.012-Z0.014-logD02.50-MS-Xc0.3217-00312-eta25.00.h5

@param filename: The full path to the GYRE output file
@type filename: string
@return: a tuple with 7 parameters of the model as float or integer values. The order of the 
         output is the following:
         - 0: M_ini, initial mass
         - 1: fov, exponential overshoot parameter
         - 2: Z, initial metallicity
         - 3: logD: the logarithm of the extra diffusive mixing
         - 4: Xc: the core hydrogen mass fraction
         - 5: model_number: integer, giving MESA step number
         - 6: eta: rotation rate in percentage w.r.t. the break up rotation rate
@rtype: tuple

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 227 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_track_attrs ()"

.PP
.nf
Get the attribute names of the var_def.track object. These are the four basic attributes used to 
define/distinguish an evolutionary track in MESA.

@return: list of attribute names, i.e. 'M_ini', 'fov', 'Z', 'logD'
@rtype: list of strings

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 491 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.get_track_parameters_from_hist_filename ( filename)"

.PP
.nf
Extract the whole parameters in the MESA history filename, and return them as a tuple. The hist 
file can look like this:
/home/user/my_grid/M12.345/hist/M12.345-ov0.012-Z0.014-logD02.50.hist
whic corresponds to the following parameters:
- M_ini    = 12.345 Msun
- fov      = 0.012
- Z        = 0.014
- logD     = 2.50

@param filename: full path to the input GYRE filename
@type filename: string
@return: tuple with the following items in the order: M_ini, fov, Z, logD
@rtype: tuple

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 276 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SS "def asamba\&.var_lib\&.prepare_models_data ( self_models)"

.PP
.nf
Obsolete: This routine is a no Go, when dealing with the entire database, because we immediately 
run out of memory.

This routine prepares the necessary data needed to fill up all required fields in the "model" objects.
For that, we use the values from the history filenames, from GYRE input filename, and from the history
columns, as soon as we match the model_number of the input model with that of the evolution step in
the history file.
Note: For large number of input GYRE files, this routine is extremely inefficient, because for every 
input model, the history file is read one time. A better approach is provided by this routine:
var_lib.get_hist_and_gyre_in_data().

@param self_models: an instance of the "var_def.models" class 
@type self_models: models object
.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 402 of file var_lib\&.py\&.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for ASAMBA from the source code\&.
