.TH "asamba.star.modes" 3 "Mon May 15 2017" "ASAMBA" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
asamba.star.modes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
Inherits \fBasamba\&.star\&.mode\fP\&.
.PP
Inherited by \fBasamba\&.star\&.star\fP\&.
.SS "Public Member Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fB__init__\fP (self)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBset\fP (self, attr, val)"
.br
.RI "Setter\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBget\fP (self, attr)"
.br
.RI "Getter\&. "
.ti -1c
.RI "def \fBload_modes_from_file\fP (self, filename, delimiter='')"
.br
.RI "Methods\&. "
.in -1c
.SS "Public Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBmodes\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBnum_modes\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Definition at line 114 of file star\&.py\&.
.SH "Member Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "def asamba\&.star\&.modes\&.load_modes_from_file ( self,  filename,  delimiter = \fC''\fP)"

.PP
Methods\&. 
.PP
.nf
Load a file, and insert all meaningful columns in the file (i.e. those that have the same header name
as those of the "modes" class) into the "mode" attribute. It returns a list of modes, where each mode
corresponds to one line in the file. The columns are delimited based on the passed delimiter

Strict formatting of the input file:
- The file has two headers as the first two lines:
  + line 1: the name of each column
  + line 2: the Python-intrinsic format of each line, e.g. int, float, boolean
- The header names must be identical to the attributes of the mode object
- If one attribute is unknown for all modes of the same star, that column would better be omitted.
  E.g. if for a star we do not know the modes form a frequency spacing or not, we leave this column
  off, instead of setting it off for all modes.
- if a value for a mode is unknown, the column must read None or none. Never leave an unknown column
  empty.
- For boolean columns, "1" means True, and "0" means False.

@param filename: the full path where the 
@type filename: str
@param delimiter: the delimiting character between the columns, e.g. ',', or space, etc. Default: ''
@type delimiter: str
@return: list of modes
@rtype: list

.fi
.PP
 
.PP
Definition at line 148 of file star\&.py\&.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for ASAMBA from the source code\&.
